Chapter 6

That Spring

Through the windows of the Butyrki Prison every morning and
evening in June, 1945, we could hear the brassy notes of bands
not far away—coming from either Lesnaya Street or Novoslo—
bodskaya. They kept playing marches over and over.

Behind the murky green "muzzles" of reinforced glass, we stood
at the wide—open but impenetrable prison windows and listened.
Were they military units that were marching? Or were they work—
ers cheerfully devoting their free time to marching practice? We
didn‘t know, but the rumor had already gotten through to us that
preparations were under way for a big Victory Parade on Red
Square on June 22—the fourth anniversary of the beginning
of the war.

The foundation stones of a great building are destined to groan
and be pressed upon; it is not for them to crown the edifice. But
even the honor of being part of the foundation was denied those
whose doomed heads and ribs had borne the first blows of this
war and thwarted the foreigners‘ victory, and who were now
abandoned for no good reason.

"Joyful sounds mean nought to the traitor."

That spring of 1945 was, in our prisons, predominantly the
spring of the Russian prisoners of war. They passed through
the prisons of the Soviet Union in vast dense gray shoals like
ocean herring. The first trace of those schools I glimpsed was
Yuri Y. But I was soon entirely surrounded by their purposeful
motion, which seemed to know its own fated design.

237
