624 | crossary

Ehrenburg, Hya Grigoryevich (1891—1967). Soviet writer and journal—
ist; spent many. years in Paris; author of memoirs of Stalin era.

Etinger, Y. G. (?—1952). Soviet physician, arrested in 1952 in so—
called "doctors‘ case." Died under interrogation.

Fedotov, A. A. (1864—?). A Soviet official; defendant in Shakhty trial.

Figner, Vera Nikolayevna (1852—1942). A leader of Narodnaya Volya
group, took part in successful conspiracy to assassinate Alexander
II in 1881.

Filonenko, Maksimilian Maksimilianovich. Right Socialist Revolu—
tionary; led anti—Bolshevik forces in Archangel in 1918.

Frank, Semyon Lyudvigovich (1877—1950). Religious philosopher,
pupil of Solovyev; exiled in 1922.

Fyodor Ivanovich (1557—1598). Halfwit son of Ivan the Terrible,
whom he succeeded in 1584. His regent was Boris Godunov, who
reigned as Tsar, 1598—1605.

Gaaz, Fyodor Petrovich (Haas, Friedrich—Joseph) (1780—1853). Ger—
man—born physician of Moscow prison hospital; sought penal re—
forms.

Gamarnik, Yan Borisovich (1894—1937). Soviet military leader who
committed suicide during purge.

Garin, N. (Mikhailovsky, Nikolai Georgiyevich) (1852—1906). Marxist
writer, who depicted young Tsarist engineers.

Gernet, Mikhail Nikolayevich (1874—?). Writer on the death pen—
alty.

Ginzburg, Yevgeniya Semyonovna (1911—). Author of labor—camp
memoirs, Journey into the Whirlwind.

Gippius, Zinaida Nikolayeyna (1869—1945). Writer, wife of Merezh—
kovsky; emigrated in 1920.

Golikov, Marshal Filipp Ivanovich (1900—). Soviet military leader;
supervised repatriation of Red Army prisoners from Germany.

Golyakov, Ivan Terentyevich, Presiding judge of Supreme Court
under Stalin.

Gorky, Maxim (Peshkov, Aleksei Maksimovich) (1868—1936). Writer;
opposed Bolsheviks at first and lived abroad (1921—1928); returned
to Russia in 1931; died under mysterious circumstances.

Gots, Abram Rafailovich (1882—1940). A Right Socialist Revolu—
tionary leader; a defendant in 1922 trial.

Govorov, Marshal Leonid Aleksandrovich (1897—1955). Soviet mil—
itary leader. .

Griboyedov, Aleksandr Sergeyevich (1795—1829). Playwright and
diplomat.

Grigorenko, Pyotr Grigoryevich (1907—). Former Red Army general,
became a dissident in 1961; in mental asylums since 1969.
